the devastation of Civilian and medical
infrastructure is escalating in Gaza as
Israel's ground forces push deeper into
Gaza City several major hospitals were
targeted overnight the US says Israel
has agreed to implement 4-Hour pauses in
the fighting but that hasn't been
officially confirmed by the Israeli
government more now from uh our
correspondents on the ground that'll be
in just a moment first though this
report from Michael
Apple gaza's hospitals have endured
another night of continuous bombing
overnight and into the early hours of
Friday
morning some paramedics from the red
crescent could only block their ears as
bombs rain down around
them outside gaza's largest hospital
elifa another strike
this is what the occupation is throwing
at hospitals missile shno let the world
bear witness to what the occupation
targets truly
are Israel accuses Palestinian armed
groups of operating from within or under
any types of buildings including
hospitals but people on the ground and
Aid experts have rejected that saying
nothing is off limits to Israel's
military
the el- Naser Children's Hospital in
Northwest Gaza has suspended operations
after being repeatedly
damaged at Al Nasser hospital we were
attacked twice once at the main gate and
the second was a direct hit there is
severe damage we ran out of oxygen for
the Intensive Care Unit and the neonatal
unit and we are out of electricity there
is only Power in the
ICU gaz's Health Ministry says 18 of its
35 hospitals and 40 other health centers
are out of service due to damage or a
lack of
fuel the White House says Israel has
committed to what it calls tactical
pauses for humanitarian Aid lasting 4
hours a day to be announced 3 hours in
advance many are questioning Israel's
intentions within the Gaza Strip prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
previously said Israel will have overall
security responsibility for Gaza
indefinitely but he appears to have
backtracked on that he told a US News
outlet that Israel does not seek to
conquer occupy or govern
Gaza it comes as Regional power cutter
Works to facilitate the release of
captives held by Hamas in the territory
Sheik tamim bin hammed Alani is visiting
Egypt to push forward humanitarian
relief
efforts for now Fierce Street battles
are being fought in the north and tens
of thousands of Palestinians some waving
White flags are fleeing South but not to
safety as Israel also bombs that
region Mike leel Al
jazer alzer's hanim Mahmud joins us from
hanun that's inside the Gaza Strip in
the southern part of the strip Han let's
try and together map out what's
happening inside Gaza City itself
because the Israeli military for several
days have had the city en Circle they've
been pushing towards the center of the
city earlier you were saying that some
of the fighting has been centered around
ansar roundabout we can bring up a map
that's not far from alifa tell us what's
happening there we have the
map yes well the the fight is in inside
Gaza City particularly at the center of
the Gaza City when it was effectively uh
splitted from the the other parts of the
Gaza Strip as Israeli claims it's the
headquarter of Hamas militants and Hamas
leadership now Israel keep pushing their
tanks and armed vehicle from three main
axes the Eastern side the northern side
and the southern part and coming from
the Sun Empire along the coastal Road uh
a Rashid road all the way to an area
better known as roundabout or ansar
intersection that includes residential
Towers right at the corner of that area
which has been taken over by the Israeli
military with at least seven snipers on
top of this residential Tower in
addition to surrounding a public
facilities and and and two schools a
public school and an honorable school
now the distance between this area to a
shifa hospital if we're talking about
air distance that's a straight line from
that area and roundabout TOA it's about
200 met 250 meters but if we talk about
ground distance where you have to go
around uh corners and from Street to
another it's about the double the
distance or a little over double the
distance what seems to be Israel has
position or the Israeli military has
position its tank in that area because
know it's the closest and it's very
strategic uh in in its attempt to a
shifa hospital where it made its claim
that right underneath the buildings of
the of shifa Hospital lies the bunkers
and the tunnels used by Hamas leadership
so in the coming hours we're going to be
seeing uh an attempt for those armed
vehicles and tanks pushing uh toward a
shifa hospital it's a it's a bit
difficult given all the residential
building in the area where which will
require more air strikes uh in my
assumption uh to clear the way in front
of those tanks as it will have to make
it as short as possible honey pause for
a second because we're listening to your
every word and I want to show again our
viewers uh a picture that was shot just
a few hours ago or a few moments ago in
fact in Gaza this one so we are seeing
tanks now um our our information is that
this video was shot near alantis
Hospital not far from Al Naser Hospital
which are both close to each other both
of these also not far from Al shifa so
our viewers can see what it looks like
what it means when you say that tanks
are progressing in this uh you know
Urban landscape of the of gaza's most
populous city talk to me now about
what's happening around alifa you were
explaining earlier that the Israeli
military appears to be targeting all the
access roads in and out of gaza's
largest
hospital
yes that's exactly what was happening
and it's still happening just within the
past few hours and and late hours of
last night where a shifa hospital
targeted repeatedly by by Massive air
strikes and tank shells destroying the
surrounding areas we're talking about
the western side of the hospital uh that
is very close to a Rashid uh there's
just a neighborhood one neighborhood
separating a cha Hospital from a rash
the coastal the coastal uh Road uh uh of
of in the western side of Gaza but from
that side it's being repeatedly targeted
from the the southern side where is an
entire department of the hospital uh
it's the delivery department has been
targeted wise I believe it was the fifth
and the fourth floor of that building
particular building where Israel made a
claim that it's underneath very the very
foundation of the building contain the
bunkers and the tunnels that Hamas is
using to run its its operations now to
the Eastern side where is the main gate
which is easier to get through from
another road that's why we're seeing
Israeli tanks are around another and
rantis Pediatric Hospital just one
straight road that take you directly to
the main gate of a shifa hospital so
we're talking about couple hundred
meters from the Anar roundabout and from
atisi and Naser hospital to a Shiva
Hospital what seems to be an attempt
very close to squeeze a shifa
hospital alaz alaz is hanim Mahmud
reporting from hanun that's the very
latest that we know about what's
happening inside Gaza City